README.md, before:

# Adaptive Bayesian Updates

This is a companion repository for the `R` package `adaptBayes` available here: https://github.com/umich-biostatistics/adaptBayes

First, install and load that package using the following commands:

```r
library(devtools)
# may take some time:
install_github('umich-biostatistics/adaptBayes') 

library(adaptBayes)
```

Second, use the scripts in this repository to reproduce 
the simulations studies in Boonstra and Barbaro

### Further details

In more detail, there are six files included in this repository (in addition to this README): one text file (ending in <samp>.txt</samp>) and five <samp>R</samp> scripts (ending in  <samp>.R</samp>). The simulation studies reported in Boonstra and Barbaro were run using commit 22

#### Text file
<samp>run_abu_sims.txt</samp> is the script for submitting parallel runs of <samp>run_aub_sims.R</samp> (described below) to a cluster that is running SLURM. The following command run in terminal will do this:

<code> sbatch run_abu_sims.txt </code>

The script assumes that you are working in your home directory. Edit the script as necessary  

#### <samp>R</samp> files

<samp>exemplar.R</samp> creates a single simulated dataset and walks through analyzing these data using the various adaptive priors

<samp>run_abu_sims.R</samp> is the script to conduct the large-scale simulation study described in the manuscript. On a local machine, the user may choose a specific <samp>array_id</samp> (as described in this script's documentation) and run the code locally on his/her machine. On a cluster running SLURM, the user can use this script to submit multiple jobs simultaneously (as described in the description of
<samp>run_abu_sims.txt</samp> above). 

<samp>functions_simulation.R</samp> provides the simulation functions. NOTE: this only contains the extra functions needed to simulate the data; the methods are contained in the `adaptBayes` package

<samp>generate_params.R</samp> constructs inputs for running the simulation study. As described in the script's documentation and the language below, these inputs can be overwritten by the user

<samp>make_figures.R</samp> gives the code to create the figures and tables in the manuscript and supplementary material reporting on the simulation study. 

#### Current Suggested Citation

Boonstra, Philip S. and Barbaro, Ryan P., "Incorporating Historical Models
with Adaptive Bayesian Updates" (2018) *Biostatistics* 
https://doi.org/10.1093/biostatistics/kxy053

<a href="https://biostats.bepress.com/umichbiostat/paper124">Authors' Copy </a>

DOI for this repository:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/140338593.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/140338593)

Commit message:

replaced exemplar.r with vignette.r; updated readme to reflect; added vignette.pdf

README.md, after:

# Adaptive Bayesian Updates

This is a companion repository for the `R` package `adaptBayes` available here: https://github.com/umich-biostatistics/adaptBayes. This package contains all of the additional code needed for conducting the simulation study in Boonstra and Barbaro (2018)

Install and load the `adaptBayes` package using the following commands:

```r
if(!require(adaptBayes)) {
  library(devtools)
  # if installation is necessary, compiling everything will take a few minutes
  install_github('umich-biostatistics/adaptBayes') 
} 
```

After installing the package, you can use the scripts in this repository to reproduce the simulations studies in the manuscript. See also `vignette.pdf` for a vignette describing the typical usage of the adaptive Bayesian priors on a simulated dataset

### Further details

In more detail, there are six files included in this repository (in addition to this README and `vignette.pdf`): one text file (<samp>run_abu_sims.txt</samp>) and five <samp>R</samp> scripts (ending in  <samp>.R</samp>). The simulation studies reported in Boonstra and Barbaro were run using commit 22

#### Text file
<samp>run_abu_sims.txt</samp> is the script for submitting parallel runs of <samp>run_aub_sims.R</samp> (described below) to a cluster that is running SLURM. The following command run in terminal will do this:

<code> sbatch run_abu_sims.txt </code>

The script assumes that you are working in your home directory. Edit the script as necessary  

#### <samp>R</samp> files

<samp>vignette.R</samp> creates a single simulated dataset and walks through analyzing these data using the various adaptive priors. It can also be `knit` to create a copy of `vignette.pdf`

<samp>run_abu_sims.R</samp> is the script to conduct the large-scale simulation study described in the manuscript. On a local machine, the user may choose a specific <samp>array_id</samp> (as described in this script's documentation) and run the code locally on his/her machine. On a cluster running SLURM, the user can use this script to submit multiple jobs simultaneously (as described in the description of
<samp>run_abu_sims.txt</samp> above). 

<samp>functions_simulation.R</samp> provides the simulation functions. NOTE: this only contains the extra functions needed to simulate the data; the methods are contained in the `adaptBayes` package

<samp>generate_params.R</samp> constructs inputs for running the simulation study. As described in the script's documentation and the language below, these inputs can be overwritten by the user

<samp>make_figures.R</samp> gives the code to create the figures and tables in the manuscript and supplementary material reporting on the simulation study. 

#### Current Suggested Citation

Boonstra, Philip S. and Barbaro, Ryan P., "Incorporating Historical Models with Adaptive Bayesian Updates" (2018) *Biostatistics* 
https://doi.org/10.1093/biostatistics/kxy053

<a href="https://biostats.bepress.com/umichbiostat/paper124">Authors' Copy </a>

DOI for this repository:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/140338593.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/140338593)
